Paul Grayson walked the city street slowly. He was sauntering towards
the spaceport, but he was in no hurry. He had allowed himself plenty of
time to breathe the fresh spring air, to listen to the myriad of sounds
made by his fellow men, and to revel in the grand freedom that being
out in the open gave him. Soon enough he would be breathing canned air,
pungent with the odor of compressor oil and the tang of the greenery
used to replenish the oxygen, unable to walk freely more than a few
dozen steps, and unable to see what lies beyond his viewports.

Occasionally his eyes looked along the low southern sky towards Alpha
Centauri. Proxima, of course, could not be resolved by the naked eye,
much less the stinking little overheated mote that rotated about
Proxima. Obviously unfit for human life and patently incapable of
spawning life of its own, it was Paul Grayson's destination, and would
be his home for a few days or a few weeks depending entirely upon
whether things went good or bad.

Only during the last four out of two thousand millions of years of its
life had this planet been useful. Man needed a place to stand; not
to move the earth with Archimedes's lever but to survey the galaxy.
Proxima Centauri I was the only planet in the trinary and as bad as it
was, it was useful for a space station.

In an hour, Paul Grayson would be locked in a capsule of metal hurling
himself through space towards Proxima I. He was looking forward to ten
days cooped up in a spacecraft of the type furnished by the Bureau of
Astrogation to its engineers which was a far cry from the sumptuous
craft run by the Big Brass. His confines would be lined with functional
scientific equipment; his air supply would be medically acceptable but
aesthetically horrible; and his vision limited to the cabin, for beyond
the viewports would be only the formless, endless, abysmal blackness of
absolutely nothing while the ship mounted into multiples of the speed
of light.

Then days in a building filled to the dome with power equipment and
radio gear; timing mechanism and recorders; and a refrigerator set-up
that struggled with the awesome heat poured into Proxima I by its
close-by luminary but which succeeded only in lowering the temperature
to the point where the potting compound in the transformers did not run
out, where the calibrating resistors would not change their values,
where the recording machines would still make a record.

And then again more days in the ship before it returned to earth. Call
it thirty days and understand why Paul Grayson sauntered along killing
time in the fresh air before taking off.

Paul grinned. Four years ago he had arrived a full hour early and
wasted the hour in the smelly ship instead of filling his lungs with
clean fresh air. Never again. He would arrive a full five minutes
before check-in time.

He heard some radio music, its tone stripped of high frequencies from
its passage through the slit of a partially-opened window. He sniffed
the air and laughed because someone was cooking corned beef and
cabbage. Then he was out of the range of the radio music. Paul liked
music. He hummed a tune as he walked, and then as the fancy struck him,
he started to sing. It was faint singing; it would not have carried
more than a few feet, but it sufficed for Paul. It was a refrain from
an early atomic-age ballad:

    "_Round and round and round go the deuterons
    Round and round the magnet swings them
    Round and round and round go the deuterons
    Smack! In the target goes the ion beam!_"